README refactoring (#1)
ERNI-Academy/starterkit-embedded-erni-yocto: README.md

[![All Contributors](https://img.shields.io/badge/all_contributors-3-orange.svg?style=flat-square)](#contributors)
<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-BADGE:END -->

## features

- this yocto layer contains the minimal configuration to start working with yocto/poky
- it builds an image (bootloader + sourcetree + initramfs + kernel + partition table +
rootfs) which can be used to boot a Raspberry Pi 3b+/4
- the image can be tested on a on Qemu-based virtual machine

## prerequisites (host OS)

Both Ubuntu 22.04 and 20.04 are elegible as host OS.

## installation

Get the apt required packages + repo cloning.

### get required packages

The following commands are required to get the apt packages.

```bash
sudo apt update

sudo apt install \
    gawk wget git-core git diffstat unzip build-essential chrpath socat cpio \
    python3 python3-pip zstd libsdl1.2-dev xterm make xsltproc fop xmlto libssl-dev pv

pip3 install kas==3.0.2
```

### clone the repo

Clone the ideafix repo, then cd to the cloned repo folder.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ERNI-Academy/starterkit-embedded-erni-yocto.git
cd starterkit-embedded-erni-yocto.git
```

## generation

> This project uses KAS to generate and build the image. KAS is a wrapper for the

Author: is this KAS description correct?

pip3 install kas==3.0.2
```

2. Clone the repo
### clone the repo

Clone the ideafix repo, then cd to the cloned repo folder.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ERNI-Academy/starterkit-embedded-erni-yocto.git
cd starterkit-embedded-erni-yocto.git
```

## Getting Started
## generation

1. Checkout layers.
This project uses KAS to generate and build the image. KAS is a wrapper for the
yocto bitbake standard tool, that makes things easier for newcomers to yocto. It
uses yml files as input, and from there it downloads the required repositories, and
generates the bitbake recipes & output folders.

The generation consists in checking out the _ideafix_ configuration file, and then
issuing the corresponding build command, that in ideafix can either be for qemu or rPI.

### layers checkout

The first thing to do is to checkout the main kas file, in our case, `ideafix.yml`.

```bash
kas checkout conf/ideafix.yml
```

# Additionally you can specify the build folder

> # This is useful keep isolated the qemu and the real builds

Author: Why would this be desired? I may restore that text. Anyhow, the only folder that seems to matter in order to have build persistency is `sstage`.

Now I realize that having build folders for different branches as my text suggests does not make much sense.

> The build folder is the one pointed to by the `KAS_BUILD_DIR` environment variable. Examples:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `KAS_BUILD_DIR` environment variable configures the build folder. It is highly recommended to isolate the build between the different targets. Thus, it could be used one of the following examples if it is more convenient:
```

> export KAS_BUILD_DIR=build_branch2
> export KAS_BUILD_DIR=build_featureX

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export KAS_BUILD_DIR=qemu
export KAS_BUILD_DIR=raspberrypi
```
